Welcome back.
If you remember our talk about testing I mentioned that react has these two special features that you
often see in their tests.
One is the enzyme library which allows us to render our components in a test environment which we saw
and then we can use whatever expect methods that we want from just to actually test whatever it is rendered.
But there's also another thing called the snapshot testing and again this is another really good tool
that comes with just that really really helps us test our React Components.
So let's talk about that in this video if we go back to our app you might be asking yourself.
All right.
I can keep going with this car component and just use the regular just syntax to make sure that the
car component has everything that I need including maybe an an image tag a def tag some names and emails.
But here's the thing.
We worked really really hard to keep these components what we call stateless components.
They're not using the class syntax to extend react component.
They don't have any state.
They're just pure functions that we've created.
So if we're actually writing test I bet we're going to repeat a lot of code here.
We're always going to just be testing if this guy render if this god rendered and that's a lot of repeated
work for a developer will just realize that this would be a lot of redundant wasted time.
Wouldn't it be great if we can just take a snapshot of whatever this car component renders in any time
while we're riding our car component.
Anything changes.
And the component doesn't look as we expected it to.
As the snapshot that we took a picture of.
Well if it looks any different then we failed the test.
That's what snapshot testing is.
And it's really easy.
Let me demonstrate and you'll see how simple it is.
Let's go back to our car test here instead of doing the length to equal one and many other tests that
we can right here.
Let's do something different here.
I'm going to write.
Expect we're going to shallow card and says we're not using render and mount here.
Let's just remove that from our imports.
Now we've rendered the card component in jest.
We can use snapshot testing to say to match snapshot.
That's it.
So what does this do.
Well let's save here and see what just happened.
We have a snapshot summary that showed up that says one snapshot written in what in one test suite and
we see that it passed.
That's good.
But one thing you may have noticed is that we now have a folder a snapshot folder that magically appear
just by running this method.
If I open this up I see that just took a snapshot and you can read out more about it here.
But it looks like a text file a plain text file that has all these things.
You see these shallow wrapper object here that has of length one it has the class name that we have
in our div.
If I keep scrolling down we see that we have a ton of information such as the type of div we also have
a type of P a paragraph.
Now what does this actually mean.
This took a picture of this component when we shallow rendered it so that now I can keep saving let's
say I'm working on my app working on the card component and I keep saving keep saving but I decide to
remove this text center calculus class that it has.
I'm going to change that and save that now.
My tests fail.
And it says one snapshot test failed because we've just changed what the snapshot expected.
The card component to render.
How cool is that.
Magically detects any changes and if let's say a developer comes in and messes up our card component
the test will immediately fail we see that.
Expect to rent your car component is failing that's very very cool.
And it even tells you where the changes have made.
This is the same with let's say we're by mistake not rendering our p component our email of the robot
if I save this we see that we're missing a few things
very cool.
Now let's go back to having the e-mail here.
Let's save it.
OK.
Everything is passing.
But let's say that.
Well I actually do now want the text to be centered.
I do.
This was intentional.
I did want to move the class name and make a change to it.
Well with snapshot testing if I save this we see that we have press W to show more.
I'm going to play precis WG And here we see that we have the option of pressing you to update the failing
snapshots.
If I press you here it's going to take another snapshot.
And it's going to say yes I made this intentionally take another snapshot and use that as a reference.
So I'm going to say you.
And there you go.
My snapshot is now updated and if I go back to the way I had it before it's not going to fail because
it's expecting a different snapshot the snapshot was just updated in here.
Now how simple is that.
It's very very nice.
And as a matter of fact because we've made this card component so simple is just a function a pure function
that takes an input and always produces the same output by just using the snapshot testing.
We don't really need to test anymore.
We're testing exactly what it needs to do which is make sure that the car component renders whatever
we tell it to render.
And that's the beauty of snapshot testing and creating these small stateless components we can have
really really nice tests that are one liners to just run a snapshot test and we've pretty much covered
our bases for the car.
Now one thing I haven't shown you and let me go back to updating our snapshot here.
We want to press you is code coverage.
How do we know that the map snapshot or the to match snapshot is actually fully testing the car component.
Well I can run NPM test Dash Dash Space dash dash coverage and it's gonna show me a coverage report
and let me make this a little bit bigger so we can see look at that.
We have absolutely zero tests other than perhaps see setup test dodgy yes but that's because we're not
doing anything in that file.
So there's not much to test there but if we look at car component even though all the other components
have just zero percent zero percent test coverage card component now has a 100 percent code coverage.
How cool is that.
One simple line and we've covered our bases with the card component again.
I'm going to keep saying this throughout these videos but writing tests shouldn't be complicated tried
to structure your application in a way that writing tests are really really simple and the way you do
that is by writing these pure functions that keep things simple and you don't have these massive functions
that do a ton of things that become harder and harder to test with more lines of code.
All right that's it for now.
Let's keep writing some more tests and the next video by.